HELP

If you haven't already, PLEASE PAY THE REQUIRED PRICE FOR THIS PROGRAM ($10) TO
THE PROGRAMMER (Stephen Kittelson) See section 10 for payment information.

----------------------------------------

Contents:

 1.Using help
 2.General tips
 3.General keyboard mapping
 4.Key mappings specific to the different listings
 5.Editing a item
 6.Modifying the category/transactee in a transaction
 7.Modifying the flags
 8.Using the options screen
 9.Searching
 10.Command line options
 11.Contacting the programmer
 12.About PFA

----------------------------------------

1.Using help

  Keys available:

   Pgup: scroll the screen up a page
   Pgdn: scroll the screen down a page
    Esc: exit help and return to the transaction listing

2.General Tips

   EXPERIMENT!!! (In order to not mess any of your data up, either don't write 
      the wrong data to your file with the right data, or make a backup copy of
      your data file first)
   When you write your data to a file on your storage device (commonly known 
      as 'C:' drive or hard drive), it will not be lost when you turn off your 
      computer.
   When you release (or free) your data from memory (commonly known as 'RAM' 
      or 'Primary memory'), it is lost forever (unless, of course, you wrote 
      it to your storage device).
   When you turn off your computer, your data in memory is lost (unless, of 
      course, you wrote it to your storage device)
   PFA will not let you change input locations until there is a valid value at
      the current input location, unless you press ESC. Whether the value is 
      valid or not, by pressing ESC, you cancel all the changes made to that
      item.
   When recording payment of tithing, the category has to be 'Tithing' in order
      to deduct it from the 'tithing owed' total.
   Enter expenses as negative values.
   When someone pays you back, specify them as the 'transactee'. Since the 
      value is positive, it will be deducted from their total. 
   The point-of-view of the value next to a transactee on the transactee screen
      and the `Debt balance' total is: "How much money have I given them/it?"

3.General keyboard mapping

   [Alt +] Up/Down arrows: move the selection one
                           Alt + up/down arrows:
                              move the selection ten
             [Alt +] Home: move the selection to the item on the top of the 
                            screen
                           Alt + Home:
                            move the selection to the first item in the whole 
                            list
              [Alt +] End: move the selection to the item on the bottom of the 
                            screen 
                           Alt + End:
                            move the selction to the last item in the whole 
                            list
                Pgup/Pgdn: move the selection up/down one page/screen
                        L: load a data file into memory, releasing the current 
                           data
                        W: write the data in memory to a file on the disk
                        F: free the data in memory WITHOUT writing the data to 
                           the file on the disk. Depending on what screen you 
                           are on, it will release that data. For instance, if 
                           you are on the transaction screen, only the 
                           transactions will be released. The transactees and 
                           categories will not be released.
                        C: invoke the calculator
                        T: display the totals
                      Del: remove the selected item from the list
                      Ins: insert a new item above the selected item
                      Esc: free all the data from memory and exit PFA
                    Enter: edit the selected item
                       F1: invoke help (this screen)
                       F2: edit the program options (colors,tithing 
                           method,etc.)
                       F3: edit the category list
                       F4: edit the transactee list
                       F5: edit the transaction list
                       F6: display the tutorial instructions at the bottom of
                           the screen

4.Key mapping for the ...

  Transaction listing

    P: send the transaction data to the printer
    S: search the memos of the transactions (case 
        sensitive)
     when you are searching, if you press...
      Alt + ...
        F: search the flags. (Deposited, bank verified,...)
                 *: wildcard
                 X: set
          (empty) : not set
        C: search the categories
        T: search the transactees

  Category listing
  
    Space bar: toggle the inclusion of the selected item in the percentage 
               report

5.Editing a item

                          Esc: cancels the edit
                      Alt + Q: accepts the edit
   Alt + a highlighted letter: move to that input location
                        Enter: move to the next input location. If there is 
                               only 1 input location, then it acts like 'Alt+Q'

6.Modifying the category/transactee in a transaction

  You can type the name of the item you want until it is displayed. The search 
    is case sensitive.
  Up/Down arrows: change the item

7.Modifying the flags

   Space bar: change the value of the flag at the cursor's location

8.Using the options screen

    Alt + T: goto the tithing input location
    Alt + Q: keep changes, write them to pfa.dat, and return to transaction
             listing
        Esc: do NOT keep changes and return to transaction listing
      Enter: move to the next input location

9.Searching

   Type in the pattern to search for. It is case sensitive.

      Alt + F: search for transactions with a certain pattern of flags ('*' is a
               wild card)
      Alt + C: search for transactions with a certain category
      Alt + T: search for transactions with a certain transactee

   (Keys for all types of searches)

     Up arrow: move to the previous match
   Down arrow: move to the next match 
          Esc: end the search

10.Command line options

  If you want to know if you owe any tithing or not, and you don't want to 
  have to check manually, you can setup a script to check for you! To have PFA 
  let the script know if you owe tithing and your PFA data file is 'bob2000', 
  just enter the command line 'pfa -t bob2000'. If you owe tithing, PFA will 
  return 1, otherwise, it will return 0.
  
11.Contacting the programmer

   You can contact me at my email address: stephen.kittelson@juno.com
   
   Feel free to send me: complaints about PFA, suggestions, questions

12.About PFA

   PFA is shareware.
   
   You can copy PFA and give it to as many people as you would like. Be sure 
   you have the current version (which is at the top of each screen). If you 
   would like to know if a new version comes out, just email me with 
   'subscribe-pfa' in the subject line. If you would like me to email the new 
   versions to you, just email me with 'subscribe-pfa-send' in the subject 
   line. If you would like to have the current version emailed to you, email 
   me with 'send-pfa' in the subject line.

   You can send a check or money order for $10 to:
#ifndef BETA
      Stephen Kittelson
      P.O. Box 8505
      Mesa, AZ USA 85214-8505
#else
      (this is a BETA version. if you did not directly receive this copy of PFA
       from Stephen Kittelson himself, delete this program! It is NOT the 
       offical release and may have defects, problems, and unclear 
       instructions!)
#endif

   Please be honest! If you have already paid $10 and this is an upgrade,
   please pay $5, unless the upgrade merely fixed a problem, then it is free.

   Versions of PFA that are upgrades to the version you have increment the 
   first number before the '.' on the version number, problem fixes increment 
   the number after the '.'.
